In this video I'll demonstrate how to create a fair distributed switch.
So here I am with the homescreen of these for web client.
And you can see in my environment here I've got to ESX I hosts.
So I want to create a Vee's for a distributed switch that will span both of these ESX I hosts.
So I'm going to go to networking and you can see here I've already got a viz for a distributed switch
that I've created before I'm going to create one more.
So let's.
Right click my virtual data center here and I'm going to go to a distributed switch and click on new
distributed switch and on a new distributed switch I'm going to call this the VCP demo click on next
and I'm going to choose the version of my vse for a distributed switch.
I know that all of my hosts are ESX I 6.5 or later.
So that will be just fine.
So I'm going to go ahead and hit next Herr I get to choose the number of uplinks.
And in this scenario I'm just going to leave it at the default for network IO control is currently enabled.
I'll leave that enabled and I do want to create a default port group.
So I'm going to call it my VM network and I'm just going to call it DP g to make it easy to differentiate
this from any standard port groups that might exist.
And then I'll hit next and finish.
And so that's it.
I've now created a VSE fair distributed switch.
So the fact that I've created a Vee's for distributes which doesn't really mean much of anything at
this point.
I've created a discriminants which is not really doing anything.
If I click on the distributed switch and come over here to the right you can see that this particular
distributed switch is not currently associated with any ESX I hosts.
So that's my next step.
I'm going to go ahead and click on Add and manage hosts then I'm going to add some new host to this
Vee's for a distributed switch.
Now what this essentially means is that I've got this centralized configuration that's what I've created
so far.
Right if credit is distributed switch I've created a distributed port group.
I haven't really modified the settings on it very much but there are security policy settings and all
that stuff is baked into this.
These are distributed switch configuration.
And so when I add hosts What I'm essentially doing is pushing this configuration down to these ESX hosts
and making this distributed switch available on those hosts.
So I've got to ESX I host I'm going to select both of them.
I'm going to click on next and I'm not going to manage any of my V.M. Colonel Portes I've got management
VM Colonel Portes created on each of these hosts.
They're actually in a standard switch.
I'm going to leave those alone if I wanted to I could migrate those but I'm not going to do that.
I am going to however manage my physical adapter so we'll take a look at that.
And so basically here is how this works.
I've got physical adapters on these ESX I hosts and each physical adapter can only be used by one virtual
switch so you can see on each of these hosts I have three physical adapters and they're all in use.
I'm actually going to grab these physical adapters from a different Vee's for a distributed switch and
steal them for this particular Vee's for a distributed switch.
So I'm going to take the next two and assign it to uplink one on my new distributed switch.
And I'm also getting Rabbe VM next to this other Vee's for a distributed switch and assign that as well
to uplink one.
And so you can see here it's currently in use by the rick Creasey demo video.
DV Yes which is something I created prior.
And I'm changing that hair.
And so now it's going to tell me hey is there any impact to like VM kernel ports or things like that.
There's nothing like that to be concerned with.
So I will finish and if we go ahead and browse back to hostes and Klosters.
Now I've got these two hosts added.
I'm going to go to one of my ESX I host.
I'm going to go to configure and let's see what changes have now taken place with this host now has
the VCP demo virtual switch.
It's got one of its physical adapters allocated to this particular virtual switch VM Nic to.
And if I look at my second ESX host it's going to be the same thing.
This virtual switch is now going to be available on the second ESX host and VM to as I've configured
it is now dedicated to this virtual switch.
So that's a simple configuration of a regular fare distributed switch.